Major work items in the userguide for 2.1.0 release.  

Please add items as you discover them and delete them as they are
completed. 

DEFERRED (1) In introduction, think about adding pointers to tutorial slides.
    (SJF: we'll make the slides available after PLDI.)

DONE (2) Figure out what the jazzlib story is (can we do automatically
    download it in jconfigure or does user have to download it by hand) 
    and add appropriate text in installation section.  
	Mike

(2b)
    Also ack jazzlib in userguide/web pages?
    JULIAN

DONE? (3) Carefully read installation instructions and make sure all steps
    are still correct, dependent on jazzlib story.
    Mike confirmed the jazzlib story. 

(4) Check all command line options (section 3) and be sure that
    descriptions are up-to-date.
    PETER

DONE (5) Section 4 (runtime implementation details) needs to be almost
    completely rewriten, adding object model info
    DAVE G. will do this.
    More or less.  Still unhappy about Linux/IA32 conventions section,
    but suspect we can live with it for now.  

DONE (6) Section 5 -- optimizing compiler details.  Exisiting text is
    mostly fine; Think about adding more stuff?  At least include
    pointer to tutorial slides.
    STEVE
    will add pointer to tutorial when slides are available.

(7) Section 6 -- memory management details. Needs to be completely
    rewritten. 
    PERRY

DONE (8) Section 7 -- jdp.  Need to update with current status of jdp.
    Check to see what commands jdp actually understands and update
    table of commands and examples.  Status of ppc & ia32 versions.
    STEVE

DONE (9) Check FAQ for accurarcy.  Some of these issues have been resolved
    and maybe should be deleted.  Others need to be updated.
    STEVE

(10) Need to add text on current status of user defined class loaders.
    JULIAN

(11) Need to add section on VM_Address.  Perhaps this should be part
    of an extended section on VM_Magic that goes into more detail on
    how magic is really implemented and what one needs to do to add a new
    VM_Magic operation.
    PERRY

DONE (12) Move brief subsection on AOS details out of optimizing compiler
     section into its own section.  We've diverged enough from the
     system described in the OOPSLA paper that there is probably some
     things to say here that won't be redundant with the paper.
     MIKE 	

DONE (13) Add blurb about support for SOOT-style annotations. 
     MIKE

(99) General proof reading -- defer until most of the other items are
     done to avoid having to proof a section twice.
